# Multi-channel themostat hardware

The scripts in this project are designed to allow a set of relays to be controlled based on the temperatures sensed by a set of thermistors. Naturally this means that you need to have some hardware in order to make use of this. This directory contains a [schematic](thermostat_schematic.pdf) for the circuit for which this code was originally written, along with a [zip file](Gerbers.zip) of [Gerber](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerber_format) files and a [bill of materials](BOM.csv). This hardware design was commissioned by the author of the code and is released here under the same license as the source code.

The circuit here was designed to use the flush-mount [Aprilaire 8051](https://www.alpinehomeair.com/viewproduct.cfm?productid=453059031)
remote thermistors to sense the temperature in a room but it can be used unmodified with any thermistor with a nominal 10K resistance. If thermistors with a different nominal resistance are used then it may be desirable to change the values of resistors R1 through R8 to ensure that the analogue inputs have optimal resolution in the expected range. In the case that either the thermistor type is changed or the values of R1 through R8 are changed it may be necessary to edit the code to change the values of `DEFAULT_R_REF` (the value of the fixed resistor in the voltage divider), `DEFAULT_R_NOMINAL` (the nominal resistance of the thermistor), `DEFAULT_NOMINAL_TEMP` (the temperature at which that nominal resistance is measured) and/or `DEFAULT_BETA` (the beta constant for the thermistor).

It should be noted that the original *source* files for the hardware design are not included here since the subcontractor who did this work used OrCAD, which is expensive, closed-source and uses a proprietary file format. It is hoped that in the future this design will be reworked using an open source CAD package (or at the very least a free-as-in-beer one) at which point the full hardware source will be released too.
